# How to use Tkinter Designer

## Table of Contents:
1. [**Getting Started**](#getting-started-top)
   1. [Install Python](#getting-started-1)
   2. [Install Tkinter Designer](#getting-started-2)
   3. [Make a Figma Account](#getting-started-3)
   
2. [**Formatting Your Figma Design**](#formatting-your-figma-design-top)
   1. [Reference](#formatting-1)
   2. [Element Guide](#formatting-2)
   
3. [**Using Tkinter Designer**](#using-tkinter-designer-top)
   1. [Personal Access Token](#using-1)
   2. [File URL](#using-2)
   3. [Test Your Generated Code](#using-3)
   
4. [**Troubleshooting**](#troubleshooting-top)

<br><br>

# Getting Started <small>[[Top](#table-of-contents)]</small>

<a id="getting-started-1"></a>
## 1. Install Python
Before using Tkinter Designer, you'll need to install Python.  
* [Here is a link to the Python downloads page.](https://www.python.org/downloads)  
* [Here is a helpful guide to installing Python on various operating systems.](https://wiki.python.org/moin/BeginnersGuide/Download)

*Later in this guide, you will use the Package Installer for Python (pip), which may require you to add Python to your system PATH.*

___
<br>

<a id="getting-started-2"></a>
## 2. Install Tkinter Designer
Once you have Python installed, you can download Tkinter Designer from the [official repository](https://github.com/ParthJadhav/Tkinter-Designer).

1. Download the source files for Tkinter Designer

2. Unzip the source files to a directory on your system

3. Open a terminal/command prompt in this directory
   * You can navigate to this folder using the `cd` command.
   * You can also use an IDE with a built-in terminal, such as [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/).

4. Install the necessary dependencies by running `pip install -r requirements.txt`
   * In the event that pip doesn't work, also try the following commands:
     * `pip3 install -r requirements.txt`
     * `python -m pip install -r requirements.txt`
     * `python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt`
   * If this still doesn't work, ensure that Python is added to the PATH.
  
5. You can run Tkinter Designer by running `python tkinter_designer.py`

___
<br>

<a id="getting-started-3"></a>
## 3. Make a Figma Account
1. In a web browser, navigate to [figma.com](https://www.figma.com/) and click 'Sign up'
2. Enter your information, then verify your email
3. Create a new Figma Design file
4. Get started making your GUI
   * The next section covers required formatting for Tkinter Designer input.
     * [Here is the official Figma tutorial series for beginners.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cx2dkpBxst8&list=PLXDU_eVOJTx7QHLShNqIXL1Cgbxj7HlN4)
     * [Here is the official Figma YouTube channel.](https://www.youtube.com/c/Figmadesign/featured)
     * [Here is the Figma Help Center.](https://help.figma.com/hc/en-us)

<br><br>

# Formatting Your Figma Design <small>[[Top](#table-of-contents)]</small>

<a id="formatting-1"></a>
## 1. Reference
<br>

### Naming is Important

| Figma Element Name | Tkinter Element |
| --- | --- |
| Button | Button |
| Rectangle | Rectangle |
| TextBox | Entry |
| Background | Canvas.Image() |

<br>

The code generated by Tkinter Designer is based on the names of elements from your Figma design and, as such, you need to name your elements accordingly. In Figma, rename your elements by double-clicking them in the Layers panel.

___
<br>

<a id="formatting-2"></a>
## 2. Element Guide
<br>

1. **First, create a Frame that will serve as your Tkinter Window.**
<br><br>

2. **Creating a Background**
   * Backgrounds can be created using shapes and/or images
   * If you use multiple shapes/images, you must group them together by selecting them all and pressing <kbd>CTRL/&#8984; + G</kbd>
<br><br>

3. **Text**
   * Use the <kbd>T</kbd> key to activate the text tool, then add text as desired
   * Text does not have to be renamed for use in Tkinter Designer
<br><br>

4. **Entry**
   * Activate the Rectangle tool with <kbd>R</kbd>
   * Adjust the Rectangle to your liking
   * Make sure the Rectangle is named "TextBox"
<br><br>

5. **Rectangle**
   * Activate the Rectangle tool with <kbd>R</kbd>
   * Adjust the Rectangle to your liking
   * Make sure the Rectangle is named "Rectangle"
<br><br>

6. **Button**
   * Add an element to serve as a button in your GUI
     * *Optional: Add text for the button*
   * Create a Rectangle on the layer beneath the button
   * Change the Rectangle's color to match the Background
   * Select the button, Rectangle, and any optional text, then group them with <kbd>CTRL/&#8984; + G</kbd>
   * Name the group "Button"
<br><br>

7. **Final Step**
   * Select your container (Frame) and make sure its X and Y coordinates are both zero.

<br><br>

# Using Tkinter Designer <small>[[Top](#table-of-contents)]</small>

### Open Tkinter Designer before doing the following steps.
<br>

<a id="using-1"></a>
## 1. Personal Access Token
1. Log into your Figma account
2. Navigate to Settings
3. In the **Account** tab, scroll down to **Personal access tokens**
4. Enter the name of your access token in the entry form and press <kbd>Enter</kbd>
5. Your personal access token will be created.
   * Copy this token and keep it somewhere safe.
   * **You will not get another chance to copy this token.**
6. Paste your personal access token into the **Token ID** form in Tkinter Designer
___
<br>

<a id="using-2"></a>
## 2. File URL
1. In your Figma design file, click the **Share** button in the top bar, then click on **&#x1f517; Copy link**
2. Paste the link into the **File URL** form in Tkinter Designer
___
<br>

<a id="using-3"></a>
## 3. Test Your Generated Code
1. In Tkinter Designer, click the **Output Path** form to open a file browser
2. Choose an output path and click **Select Folder**
3. Press **Generate**

The output files from Tkinter Designer will be placed in your chosen directory, inside a new folder called **generated_code**. Congratulations, you have now created your Tkinter GUI using Tkinter Designer!

<br><br>

# Troubleshooting <small>[[Top](#table-of-contents)]</small>

* Elements not visible? Misplaced?
  * Please make sure that your top-level Frame is positioned with its X and Y coordinates at (0, 0)
    * Check the right side bar, under **Design**

* Button has an unintended gray background?
  * Make sure you have added a Rectangle behind your button element, and that its Fill color is the same as the Background's

* Incorrect elements?
  * Make sure you have named your elements correctly in Figma
    * See [Formatting Your Figma Design, &sect;1](#formatting-1)

* Window is larger than the screen?
  * Reduce the size of your elements in Figma

* Files not generating?
  * Restart Tkinter Designer
  * Double-check the token and URL
  * Make sure your design has a Frame

* Something else?
  * [Report issues not listed here on GitHub](https://github.com/ParthJadhav/Tkinter-Designer/issues/new)